ml/train.md, before:

# Model training
maco parameter tuning
## General
1. weight_decay: 0.01  
    ```
    add λ⋅∣∣w∣∣ to pentalize large weights, prevent overfitting  
    strongly not recommend to set to 0
    ```
2. gradient_accumulation_steps: int
   ```
   accumulate gradients over several smaller mini-batches and then perform one update
   use it to avoid CUDA out of memory issue, but at cost of training performance
   ```
3. lr_scheduler_type: str
    ```
    configure the learning rate scheduler during training, following is good

    linear: lr reduce to 0 linear change
    cosine: lr reduce to 0 cosine change
    cosine_with_min_lr: lr reduce to min_lr or min_lr_rate cosine change
    ```

## Finetune
1. epoch: 3-5 (small) / 2-4 (large) / 3-10 (with early stop) 
   ``` 
    3-10 cases: NER model, need to observe eval result  
    use early stop if your task aim is not clear

    too many epoch will cause overfitting
    ```
2. warmup: 5% to 10% of total steps  
    ```
    to prevent gradient unstable
    ```

## Unstable Traning
- Loss explodes: learning rate is too high
- Loss fluctuates wildly: too much gradient noise, overfitting, poor batch normalization
- Loss does not decrease: underfitting, learning rate is too low
- Training accuracy > validation accuracy: overfitting
- Validation accuracy increase: overfitting

## Noise in Dataset
It will cause unstable training, several ways to improve:
- remove very long / short examples
- remove duplicated / conflict records
- train on easy & high quality data then expand
- use higher dropout
- use label smoothing (CrossEntropyLoss(label_smoothing=0.1) for classification task)

Commit message:

add sft (packing, assistant/completion only loss)

ml/train.md, after:

# Model training
maco parameter tuning
## General
1. weight_decay: 0.01  
    ```
    add λ⋅∣∣w∣∣ to pentalize large weights, prevent overfitting  
    strongly not recommend to set to 0
    ```
2. gradient_accumulation_steps: int
   ```
   accumulate gradients over several smaller mini-batches and then perform one update
   use it to avoid CUDA out of memory issue, but at cost of training performance
   ```
3. lr_scheduler_type: str
    ```
    configure the learning rate scheduler during training, following is good

    linear: lr reduce to 0 linear change
    cosine: lr reduce to 0 cosine change
    cosine_with_min_lr: lr reduce to min_lr or min_lr_rate cosine change
    ```

## Finetune
1. epoch: 3-5 (small) / 2-4 (large) / 3-10 (with early stop) 
   ``` 
    3-10 cases: NER model, need to observe eval result  
    use early stop if your task aim is not clear

    too many epoch will cause overfitting
    ```
2. warmup: 5% to 10% of total steps  
    ```
    to prevent gradient unstable
    ```

## Supervised Finetune (SFT)
1. packing: true
```
packing allows model to concat examples using <eos> token to improve training efficiency

recommend to set to true because it's more efficient than padding and gains performance improvement

note that bigger model, larger dataset can benefits more from packing. 
small dataset, small model, single turn conversation may suffer from batch contamination.
```

2. assistant_only_loss: true
```
use a conversational dataset and train on assistant tokens only, ignoring user or system messages
```

3. completion_only_loss: true
```
use a prompt-completion dataset and train on completion tokens only, ignoring prompt tokens
```

## Unstable Traning
- Loss explodes: learning rate is too high
- Loss fluctuates wildly: too much gradient noise, overfitting, poor batch normalization
- Loss does not decrease: underfitting, learning rate is too low
- Training accuracy > validation accuracy: overfitting
- Validation accuracy increase: overfitting

## Noise in Dataset
It will cause unstable training, several ways to improve:
- remove very long / short examples
- remove duplicated / conflict records
- train on easy & high quality data then expand
- use higher dropout
- use label smoothing (CrossEntropyLoss(label_smoothing=0.1) for classification task)
